Welcome back delightful God people in this video.
We're going to create a last NPC we're going to make cloud and cloud comes with lightning.
When I'm thinking about the cloud in B.C. going to do something a little bit different I'm thinking
that cloud doesn't directly hurt me.
Okay so this isn't an area to D.
We're not going to use that has it's going to do something different.
What we'll do is check if money is directly underneath the cloud and if Bunny is going to fire lightning.
But we're not going to machinegun lightning.
Right so every few seconds you can fire lightning if one is beneath you.
If bunny passes beneath you again while you're in time out while you're reloading the lightning whatever's
happening tough you can't do anything about it.
Cloud itself is just going to drift left and right in a very similar way to spike.
So let's get to it.
First thing we need to do as you might expect is create a new scene as you mean get rid of that graphics
bug and the scene and make a note to Dee.
That's going to be my route.
Why am I using a note to day.
Well in a moment I'm going to bring in something called Cloud clouds.
Look like this and have a little face and it's going to animate left and right and to do that we're
going to use the position right specifically.
Position X Y.
However the position X and Y is relative to the parent.
So if we don't have this node here if we just put in a sprite which is what were going to be using we're
going to run into a problem.
Let me show you the problem.
The parent will be NPC an NPC position is 0 0 relative to its parent.
Which means if we animate cloud it'll take its position from this container node and go here left and
right.
That's not what we want to solve that we're going to put in as an extra No two days in between them
and then all the things will come in underneath here like this Sprite and were going to Adamic the Sprite
not the note hoodie.
Want to call the noted cloud and just save it for now it scenes.
Let's actually bring in the graphics graphics on their enemies.
Here's a cloud and whoops actually select the Sprite drag it onto the texture.
And there is a very grumpy looking cloud.
Awesome.
What else we need.
Well we need to animate so let's bring in an animation player animation player is here and that's going
to be a child of the Sprite node code.
So Sprite is gonna be the parent for any do the animation at all.
The rest of it.
This is a container.
OK.
This is what's actually doing the work.
What else do we need.
Well we need to detect if bunnies underneath and to do that I'm going to use something called a Ray
cast or recast to de zoom in you can see it.
This is the long arrow.
Ray Castor very interesting.
They don't actually exist in the world.
Okay.
Imagine if you will that there is this I.
And though I can see Bunny.
This line of sight here that's a recast.
And they're useful because if anything breaks that Ray cast we can then run a signal from it.
That's way too small.
I want a really big break cast I want probably a size or so.
I don't know why it would be.
Three thousand that's about the the level.
Now we have this ridiculously long grey.
Awesome.
And let's just check.
We're on the right click and ask the right cast to D is only going to interact with the player doesn't
care about anything else.
Doesn't matter if something else intersects with it.
One more thing you need to do with a recasts hoodie.
This is surprisingly easy to forget so let's drill this in nice and early.
When you make a recasts hoodie it is not enabled by default.
So right here.
Make sure you enable it.
Otherwise nothing will happen and it's really frustrating.
One more thing I want.
I want a timer because I want a time when cloud can do stuff.
That's looking good.
Let's eliminate so into the animation player so let's make a new animation and then call it float Hmm
ready to go.
So we to animate the Sprite.
Remember we're not animating the cloud.
No to deal with not animating the parent were animating the Sprite.
We need this key frame of 0 0 that I'm putting in now.
That's relative to its parent.
So we need that gap if we don't have that gap.
It'll be relative to this and that is at the global zeroes or so or a cloud to be in one place we don't
want that.
All right let's look at this animation the animation look like.
Well I need a really long animation I'm thinking 20 seconds that feels good.
I was going to happen it's going to drift left for four seconds wait for to drift right.
Wait for two.
So I'm only using intervals of two seconds.
I'm a changed my step to two seconds.
And what that means is the time is going to only be moving to two second intervals as can be helpful
for me because I was zoom out which is this way.
There we go.
And now all I'm dealing with things I don't have to worry about being on second.
Twelve point six or something silly like that.
So let's see one drift left by how far on a go.
Quite a distance this go left negative 800.
So at four seconds you'll be negative 800 make a key.
Wait two seconds.
It can take four seconds to get to the centre.
Another four seconds to get to the right that's positive 800 key.
And make that key run with this line here means it's just waiting there for two seconds.
Couple of more things I want to do.
I want to loop this animation so it gets to 20 it's going go back to the beginning.
That's why here I've got a four second gap to be at that position.
Other thing on do I want to autoloader this animation.
I don't want to have to start it in script started immediately.
There's no reason for this not to play.
And that's going to go that way.
And then that way back.
Let's just play it.
So nice for second rift over there.
Cloud waits for two seconds four seconds to get to the centre.
Another four seconds to get to the right.
Wait for two seconds.
And back again.
All the way to the left.
Awesome.
That's exactly what we want.
It's now time for a script.
So let's get you back to zero and let's make a script.
In cloud.
Let's make a new script put it in a script folder and call it cloud Judy.
Okay what do we want to happen.
Well I don't need anything on ready.
I could start the animation here but I don't need to start an inspector.
There's no reason to do this in code.
So let's start with detecting when Bunnings underneath.
So on the process.
I'm going to check if something is colliding with the ray to do that.
I mean it call the ray.
And then use a built in function to show you there's built in function are going to hold control down
and click on it and is colliding.
That's exactly what you want.
Let's make this a little bit bigger.
There we go.
So back into cloud is colliding.
What do we want to happen.
We want you to fire the define fire in a second.
So very simply if something is colliding with the right cast using a built in function run Firefox.
So let's make a five function function fire.
And for now you right pass let's make that nice and tidy.
Okay.
What needs to happen if you're not timed out.
Remember you can only fire if the time has elapsed.
So let's make a timeout for that.
I'm going to go back into 2D.
You and I'm on a connect the timer to this script with a signal.
First off let me get to second time.
That feels like a decent interval and I hear time out you can connect it to klout on time a time out.
Looks good.
Alright.
Now I need a variable call this variable time out.
This is a FOSS at the beginning of the game.
You are not timed out so you can fire.
I can also call this unable to fire and at that time out feels good to me.
Some call that.
When the time has finished with a set this back to False time out equals false goes there.
And now we can make a fire.
If youre not timed out then what do we do.
We're going to spawn lightning which want to write the comment for now because we don't actually have
a scene to spawn in with a start the timer.
And the set time out to true time out there.
And that should be everything except for the actual lightning.
Before we make the lightning scene and then spawn in here.
Let's look at what we want lightning and see.
Okay lightning is going to drop straight down.
It's not going to accelerate it's not starting slow and it being hit by gravity is being fired.
It's going to move at a constant speed.
It's going to vanish if it hits the train or bunny.
Now this is different from what we've been doing up to this point.
We've been using collision masks and hazards can only interact with bunny.
Now it needs to detect touraine.
However it won't hurt Bunny if it hits torain So we need different logic.
If we just use the hazard script and then set the collision mask to hit Bonnie or touraine every time
lightning hits the ground bunny will be hurt.
I also want the lightning to vanish if it's off screen.
I want this to be q freed right only to release it from memory.
I don't want lightning dropping down the bottom of the world forever.
Eventually that will slow the game down and I want to hurt bunny.
If lightning hits Bunny and only Bunny.
So let's get to it.
Brand new seem to leave you.
And it's not going to be an area truly.
We've seen these plenty of times so area to and I call it lightning because it's a good name for it.
And let's just close all these things you know.
And if the collision shape before I do that let's see the size of what we're trying to collide with
so let's give it an animated Sprite animated.
No way you could spell animated Sprite.
That's what I'm looking for.
And you know this is not in enemies instead of that look in.
Go back up one and look in particles.
This is originally a particle in Kennie's asit pack but we're going to use it as one not really a particle
as a projectile really.
Let's make a new Sprite frame and at the Sprite frame and we're dragging my blue and my yellow.
And let's play that.
Kind of having with that speed.
Alex gets me.
We could do other stuff like make it we'll flip or anything like that but I really like that.
If you want to change the speed of it remember you can just change the frames per second so if you want
10 frames per second or two frames per second.
But I quite like five.
Some leave us five.
OK.
You are animated.
What else do we need.
We need a collision shapeless make that.
Glad you showed it to me.
And you know what I'm going to stop you flashing for now lightning because that's going to get a little
annoying.
Okay.
New shape you can be a rectangle.
And I've said it before then keep hammering this home for a while longer member to drag the extents
not the scale handles so it's going to be baltz.
That's a bit wide.
Let's.
Let's see.
That is twenty eight by fifty seven.
Awesome.
Can a high glitter shape and make sure whenever I drag lightning around them I'm dragging the whole
thing not just the low child.
And there's one more note I want to use here.
This is a new node would not use before
visibility notifier 2D detects when the node is visible on screen.
In other words this is a way you can check.
Is this on screen.
Which is exactly what we want.
Okay now we have this seeing let's say that lightning looks good and give us a script.
Remembering to put that in scripts.
Awesome.
And I'm going to go global and I will make a new scene location because we need to leave the scene.
I'm going to go into scenes just like I've done before find lightning.
Right click on it and do copy path and just paste it here.
Great.
So now.
This is ready to go.
Let's actually spawn it.
So back in lightning.
How are we going to spawn this.
I want to add a child of the great cast a wanted to happen exactly where that race is so if for some
reason they want to move the race somewhere in the Sprite Let's say I don't want it exactly here I want
it.
More like that like whereas mouth is then the lightning will happen where the detection is just feels
a lot better.
So for that to work what I'm going to do is I'm going to call the ray.
And then I'm going to add child add child adds a child node.
Right so it's going to add a node that is a child of recasts hoodie a child to be adding wedding lightning
which you just put in global so global dot lightning.
Awesome except global hot lightning is a string.
I don't want a string I want the object itself I want the seam so I need to convert this variable from
string to object and to do that I'm going to cast it with load.
So in the same way that I can turn a variable into from an integer into a string like we did with the
Gooly which I can show you.
In fact let's show that right here.
Since you do so you'll see here where we have the number of coins as an integer.
And we're casting it as a string so that the text can be displayed as a text file right.
It can't display integers it can only display strings.
We have a very similar problem right here.
By casting it from a string to an object a file object we can upload this.
One thing we will do we want to dot instance.
That's a function.
What does function do.
It allows us to bring several of these in at same time.
Right so we're going to bring in an instance of this scene and you can bring in multiple instances so
that's exactly what we need.
And that should be good to go.
If we put this in right now the lightning isn't in the movies you hover there.
So I think we should probably put some sort of movement in before we test that first thing to do is
only to use speeds or make a constant called speed and lightning is going to travel at two hundred pixels
per frame.
We can fix that later.
Feels good to me so far but we can make it very fast or very slow.
This is a thing you could change if you really wanted to.
You could turn this into an export variable but to me it feels like a constant.
I mean to make it a constant.
Currently we don't need a body functions let's get rid of it.
Well we do need to do is move on the physics.
Well a new function called Move down screen which is going to let lightning move downstream.
Now you might be asking why don't I just use move and slide.
And that's a decent question and the reason is moving a slide which I can show you right here belongs
to kinematic body 2D kinetic body to 2D is a type of physics body.
Area hoodie is not OK.
So if I look at lightning and I click on area today that's a collision object.
They don't inherit the same functions.
It's a moving slide is not available to an area to day.
So we need to create a movement.
I will bring Delta into it and that's going to allow me to multiply the speed by the delta which is
going to make it frame independent.
Remember Delta is the amount of time between frames.
So how long it's been since the last frame.
Multiply that.
That means we're always going to have a constant movement.
One more thing on Wanna do I want to make sure that if lightning is not visible then it should be removed
from memory so I'm unclear.
If not we need the visibility modify.
Let's actually make sure I'm in the right scene.
Or to complete one work.
Visibility notified to me.
OK so what do we need.
One of the functions is on exactly what we want on a close the things I'm not using.
If you're not answering is on screen okay.
If is not on screen.
Q3.
Great.
So now we don't have to worry about a whole bunch of lightning instances coming in and slide again.
Next let's make this movement.
Move down this screen.
And that uses Delta.
OK.
What I want to happen.
I want you to move down the y axis so position.
Why.
Plus equals speed times Delta.
There's actually an issue here.
I'm going to demonstrate too.
Let's bring in a cloud and I'm going to put the cloud somewhere sensible solo.
There's a scene of cloud.
And just drag it.
Member of got move selected so it does matter where I click we'll put it here for now I guess drift
quite far left and right.
What I'm expecting is when Bunny is directly beneath here the lightning is going to fall.
So let's see what happens.
Whoops.
Yes.
There's an issue right there.
Timer is wrong.
Sprite's slash timer.
Honestly I should've seen that coming.
So let's test it.
So here's the cloud and it drifts and it drifts and it fires the lightning and the lightning doesn't
go straight down and so it follows the cloud.
So why is that happening.
It's happening because lightning is being spawned in as a child of cloud which means its position is
relative to the parent which means we need to lock that in place so I make a new variable called exposition
expose.
That's a factor too.
And then I am putting the ready function back.
Budget ready.
Why are you doing things because you need brackets setting a function ready.
Much more like it.
What needs to happen.
I need to set the Expos as global position dot X. Okay.
Now when you move down the screen I need you to reset your horizontal position to expose every single
frame.
Keep your horizontal position where it was and let's move that to global position because that's really
what we mean right this global position.
And just to make it consistent Let's make the fall global as well.
And now free press play.
Here comes the cloud.
It was the lightning the lightning is moving or it needs to break.
It's currently not hitting this ring.
It's not doing anything with great so let's fix lightning first thing we do.
Make sure our collision lasts correct.
You are not a player.
That's a really silly bug.
If this is a player if it's on collision lay a player then the cloud is going to detect its own lightning.
And every time it can fire if he sees lightning you'll fire again that's going to miss everything up.
It's an enemy not a player.
What it can interact with players and touraine.
It needs to be able to interact with the train which means that we need a function called manage collision
kind of a clunky name.
You're going to go with it anyway.
Nice and big.
Let's make this managed collision thing function manage collision or I was just going to do it.
It needs to check what the lightning is touching so I need to see what's in the area.
2d right.
What bodies are in this shape.
If the body is the player needs to apply damage and then whether it's the player or not it needs to
cue free first thing to do.
I need to get the object that's inside the area to do that I need a new variable and call it Collider.
What is this.
This is get.
Overlapping bodies.
What is get over that in bodies.
It's a built in function of area 2D.
Right there it is.
And it just returns a list of things inside the area.
Awesome.
Now when you use a for loop a for loop does fall and then whatever I want to call this in and then a
variable that it knows whatever I call this doesn't actually matter.
Okay I haven't defined all these Xs or whatever I call it they call it object for the object in the
collider.
So while this thing whatever it is while this is there check it and do something.
So this is the bit I'm acting on and this is the thing you are checking Let's make the little clearer
an example if object equals equals global dot player equals equals because I am checking a value.
I am not setting a value why am I making a big deal of this because I've made this mistake so many times.
If the object is the player you need to be hurt a global dot game state DOT hurt because that's our
pain function.
Whether or not it's that's on back an indentation whether it's the player or train you need to cue free.
Okay let's check.
Here comes a cloud of blue.
There goes the lightning.
Didn't take damage.
Also we now have a cloudy ABC with lightning.
Ha.
Which brings me to the challenge.
I'd like you to bring this on puts some clouds around your level.
Don't be afraid to tweak it if you want.
Move some spikes and Spike in and jump pads and everything else.
This is a time to make your level real awesome because the next thing to do after this is add an exit.
And then our level is complete.
So pause the video bring some cloud in pieces in level that's exciting as you can.
And then when you come back I'll show you my Levellers.
Welcome back.
Okay let's bring some clouts into 2D mode and I want to be in season one which have closed because I'm
very clever at level one was level one level one is in level.
Found it.
I get I get that actually feels like a good place for you.
So cloud and move it down a bit.
There we go.
Let's make a nother club.
I don't want to put it here right.
It could go through the train.
But then the lightning is gonna hit the train it's got to useless.
Let's duplicate this cloud was not a good place.
I feel like that is a really scary place for it.
It's only here can interact with that and then right down here and we'll put one more in keep you nice
and high.
Yea right here.
This can be a little of let us put you here so the player can actually see you.
Let's see if I can finish mountable.
Jemmy you go.
And already we've added Our whole layer to this game right now.
Spikes try to talk will play very difficult go a spike that might give us the stress or just adding
in the sense of timing having to avoid not just Spike moving left and right.
But these lightning bolts is making this game a lot more interesting.
Oh what have I done.
I've made a game that I copley Square becloud.
Oh before I forget one more thing I need to do.
Let's go into the lightning season and re-enable this animation because that looks a lot more interesting
was checking.
Voters like me it's me like that.
There you go.
That's GOSPER geek in this video.
We've looked at some key concepts.
How can we bring in a..
How can we.
Instance a scene while the game is running.
How can we use a cast hoodie.
And remember always enable the right cast to.
If you want it to work and how do we check the body that's just entered an area too deep.
Using a for loop.
Don't forget to share the level that you've now made and excellent work and I'll see you in the next
video.